# Repository Description
This repository contains the completed work for the course Computational Musicology at the UvA. All work was completed by Stan Fris.
# Corpus description
The corpus that I have chosen will be a collection of songs used in the Bloons Tower Defense (BTD) videogame series. It is a tower defense strategy game where players strategically deploy towers to prevent balloons from reaching the end of a predetermined path. The game is catered towards all ages. A battles version also exists, where players compete against other players.  Songs have been collected from BTD5, BTD6, Bloons Monkey City, and BTD Battles 2, BTD Battles 1 also exists, but uses music from BTD5. The natural comparison groups here are the different games, and how they compare against one another, as they have all been composed by the same composer it offers interesting perspective into how the general game has changed over time, and what changes in music composition are made for different modes of play. The corpus is completely filled, with all songs available on spotify, however the music from earlier games does not exist in spotify, therefore the music for games BTD 1-4 is not available. There are several genres used within the music, which means that it might be difficult to compare songs from a genre that occurs only once in the corpus. Examples of these are "Beyond the Bloondrome" and "Let them eat Lead", as these are metal/rock songs, as well as "Onslaught" and "Primal One", which contain very uptempo music meant for Boss encounters. The most typical songs are the main "theme" songs of the games, as these convey the general tone the composer attempted to set for each game. 
# Homework week 7
For this the image Rplot01 can be observed, it contains a detailed plot showing the energy and valence of the songs for each game that will be investigated. It offers interesting insight in showing that there is clearly a very positive tone in all songs. It shows that especially the battles and TD 5 songs containt a lot of high-energy high-valence songs. There is a larger distribution in the songs for bloons monkey city
